On Her Majesty's Secret Service

11th James Bond title. Longest of the books (259 pages) and it took me
a while to start reading it for this simple fact. Penguin Modern Classic
shows a rather dull skiing picture.

Chapters 1-5
------------
We're back at Casino Royale. Bond is on holiday and working his way back
to the UK through France. He becomes attracted to Tracy, and in saving
her from a seaside drowning by suicide, gets kidnapped by the French
Mafia, the Union Corse. Marc-Ange Draco, the godfather of the
organisation, is Tracy's father. If Bond can marry Tracy and get her
out of her depression, Draco will pay him a dowry of a million pounds
in gold. Bond can't do anything for Tracy right now (despite having
half-written a resignation letter to M because he's doing boring jobs
at the moment) and asks Draco if he has any information on the
whereabouts of Blofeld. Draco says he's in Switzerland.

Chapters 6-10
-------------
Blofeld has written to the College of Arms in London wishing
to establish his right to be Monsieur le Comte Balthazar de Bleuville.
A plan is hatched where Bond will impersonate a representative of
the College of Arms, Scotsman Sir Hilary Bray, and will meet Blofeld
under the guise of investigating his hereditary claims. Bond swots
up on Heraldry and family descent. He travels to Zurich and is met
by Blofeld's secretary and flown high into the Swiss Alps to Blofeld's
Alpine retreat.

Chatpers 11-19
--------------
The SPECTRE model of groups of three goons of the same nationality is
present at the alpine retreat. Ten young English women are being
treated by nighttime midnight hypnosis to overcome allergies;
typically allergies to animals such as a chicken farm heiress being
allergic to chickens. Bond can't maintain his Sir Hilary disguise; a
mate of the real Sir Hilary doesn't recognise him, and then the head
of Station Z in Switzerland turns up half-dead in front of Bond and
Blofeld.

Realising he will soon be confronted; Bond makes a daring Christmas
Eve ski escape; getting away from goons and an avalanche. He staggers
into a party where he's met by Tracy who has been sent by her Dad to
keep an eye on him. Tracy gets Bond out of danger and safely onto a
plane from Zurich to London. Bond proposes to her in the airport and
is accepted.

