1066 AND ALL THAT by W.C Sellar and R.J Yeatman

1965 (1930) Penguin Books. Paperback.

This book is a triumph. I first read it probably 20 years ago and
several of the episodes have stayed in my brain forever; The Southsea
Bubble, Wycliff and the Dullards and Ethelred the Unready, who kept
being fined Danegeld by the Danes for being unready; only to be fined
by them again the next time they visited as by then he was unready
again. (It seems in the English of that time, Unready meant "badly
advised" so Ethelred had bad courtiers and ministers by the sound of
it).

I managed to read this book in three reading sessions today of about
40 minutes each, so it's a two hour read. I found that the exam paper
questions didn't amuse me much and some of the parliamentary jokes
went over my head; but I did pick up some new favourites on this
reading, such as that the Hundred Years War was so-called because
troops signed up for one hundred years, or the duration.

I have this book in an "illustrated edition", about four times the
size of the Penguin paperback I just read. I don't like illustrated
editions that much and I doubt extra illustrations will add to the fun
of 1066, but I'll have a quick look at it tomorrow to confirm or deny
my suspicions. I've had other illustrated editions over the years
(Niall Ferguson's Empire, a Bill Bryson something or other) and simply
prefer the easy standard editions.

I think someone split 1066 and All That into at least 60 different web
pages on the one site but the book doesn't work that way either,
though it saves you having to buy it. Finally the Australian cricketer
Arthur Malley called his book of cricketing memoirs "10 for 66 and All
That", since he got exactly those bowling figures in an innings
against an English County side.

I used to own the other Sellar/Yeatman paperbacks, "And Now All This"
and "Horse Sense", there might have been a third one poking gentle fun
at English countrysiders (though that might be the domain of "Horse
Sense" come to think about it). They were far weaker than 1066 and
there is no need to re-acquire them.

The English schoolboy tests and humour reached its zenith in the Nigel
Molesworth books, and the fun approach to English History was carried
on in the Horrible Histories books to entertain young boys.

                                              4th June 2025.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
