A CHRISTMAS CAROL AND OTHER CHRISTMAS WRITINGS by Charles Dickens

(1843) 2003. Penguin Classics. Paperback.

A Christmas Carol is a classic in the Mark Twain sense: a book that
I've always wanted to have read, and this Christmas/New Year period I
bit the bullet and read it. It's an excellent read and I very much
enjoyed the experience of reading it. The Penguin Classics notes and
introduction here are excellent and some words on the four years of
Charles Dickens books will help explain their place in the Dickens
canon.

Dickens's books were typically written in twenty installments, coming
out monthly or so. Once a book was completed it would be brought out
in a separate standalone edition; readers could wait for the
standalone book if they wanted. Dickens was so prolific that he was
frequently starting other writing projects and ventures. For four
years, he produced an expensive standalone Christmas book. The
four Christmas books are

1843 A Christmas Carol
1844 The Chimes
1845 The Cricket on the Hearth
1846 The Battle of Life
1848 The Haunted Man

In 1847 Dickens had his hands full writing Dombey and Son and there
was no Christmas book that year. I've seen combinations of the
Christmas Books in various editions; the first two are often combined
into a larger volume: A Christmas Carol and The Chimes. Indeed there
was a terrible paperback edition with an unappealing cover in Mum's
library in Newcastle and I blame that yucky book for me not reading
A Christmas Carol until well into my fifties.

As well as A Christmas Carol my Penguin Classic presents The Haunted
Man and some small Dickens Christmas miscellany, including the
Goblins who stole a Sexton from Pickwick Papers. I'm in no rush to
read any of the other Christmas material, A Christmas Carol will do
for now and I'll probably put off The Haunted Man until next
Christmas. Of slight interest is that the illustrator of The Haunted
Man was John Tenniel, the illustrator of Alice in Wonderland.

Just about all my knowledge of A Christmas Carol from its treatment in
movies and its place in Western Culture proved to be
correct. Ebeneezer Scrooge is visited first by the ghost of his
ex-business parter, Marley, and then the ghosts of Christmas Past,
Christmas Present and Christmas Future. The ghost of the past shows
Scrooge being lonely as a child then breaking off an engagement (a
legally complicated thing to do in those days) as a young man. The
ghost of Christmas Present takes Scrooge to his poor relation's
Christmas Party and he can see how much fun everyone is having at a
Christmas lunch; perhaps their only satisfying meal of the year. The
ghost of Christmas Future shows Scrooge unloved at his funeral and
thieves pawning stolen items from his deathbed.

Dumped back into the present day, which isn't three days into the
future as promised but still Christmas Day, Scrooge mends his ways and
gives charity to beggars and joins the Christmas lunch, even giving a
rise in wages to his clerk.

The notes say that A Christmas Carol was well received from its
inception and did more for Christmas charity than sermons or Acts of
Parliament. There were several stage versions of it as early as the
February after its printing; so those too poor to afford the glossy
book (five shillings when the average weekly wage was fifteen
shillings; probably the equivalent of $300 today) were soon aware of
the story. A Christmas Carol was frequently performed by Dickens at
his own readings; another favourite in his stage appearances was the
Trial scene from Pickwick Papers.

A very satisfying read and very appropriate for the season.

                                         3rd January 2026

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
