AMERICAN PROMETHEUS
The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer

by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin

2005. Atlantic. Paperback.

This is an awesome book that tells one of the most important stories
of the 1940s amd 1950s; the development of the Atomic Bomb and the
subsequent Cold War and Arms Race with Russia. Central to the story is
the Father of the Atomic Bonb, physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer
(Robert's father was Julius but it seems the J. was just an initial;
as indeed the S. was for US Wartime President Harry S. Truman).

Oppenheimer was a complex character in being astonishingly well-read
and having artistic interests far outside Science and Engineering.
The product of a post-religion Jewish Ethics-based School, Robert had
a strong sense of Social Justice and was drawn to left-wing positions
on the Spanish Civil War, Racial Equality and Trade Unionism.
Some of his activities brought him into contact with the Communist
Party; not as a card-carrying member but perhaps as a "Fellow
Traveller". His younger brother, mistress and wife had more direct
involvement with the Communists.

After the use of the Atomic Bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki;
Oppenheimer did his best to promote international control of Atomic
Weaponry and Atomic Energy. This was the opposite of the positions
chosen by the US government; who wanted to keep Atomic supremacy and
develop a still more terrifying weapon; the Hydrogen
Bomb. Insufficiently gung-ho about the new weapon and the Arms Race,
and too arrogant and clever for his own good, Oppenheimer soon fell
foul of enemies in business, government and academia.

In 1954 Oppenheimer was subject to a three-judge Kangaroo Court to
examine whether his security clearence should be removed. The court
found against him and his ability to influence Atomic policy was soon
at an end. Oppenheimer's tormentor, Lewis Strauss, was also agitating
for him to lose his position as Director of Pricenton's Institue For
Advanced Study. Despite petty academic squabbles amd a useless group
of tenured old Mathematicians, Oppenheimer was able to keep his
posting and retire from Academia on his own terms.

A lifelong chain smoker; Oppenheimer died of throat cancer at the age
of sixty-two.

Oppenheimer was the most prominent victim of McCarthyist "Reds under
the bed" Crucible hysteria. Strauss cleverly kept the unreliable drunk
Senator Joseph McCarthy off the case so that he could prosecute it
himself. Used by the government in the desperate days of wartime,
Oppenheimer was unsuitable to the hawks after the war as he tried to
push for Atomic Peace.

"American Prometheus" is magisterial and authoritative. I re-read it
this month, finishing it just in time to have it fresh in my mind for
the new Christopher Nolan movie "Oppenheimer" in ten days time. I'll
review the film below once I've seen it; it looks awesome from the
trailers.

This book won the 2006 Pulitzer Price for a disinguisted biography or
autobiography by an American Author.

                                       11th July 2023.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread

