AUNTS AREN'T GENTLEMEN by P G Wodehouse

2008. Arrow. Paperback.

After not touching any for years I read (or possibly re-read, I'll
need to check my list) a Wodehouse Jeeves story. This is the last of
the completed Wodehouse novels, written in 1974 although it seems set
firmly in the 1920s. Wodehouse seems to exist firmly in the mid-war
1920s and be untroubled by modern developments.

This book took me a long time to read and by Wodehouse standards it's
pretty weak. This is paint-by-numbers Wodehouse; Wooster accidentally
gets engaged and the main development of the plot once all the
characters have been established is the toing and froing of a cat,
who a champion racehorse has fallen in love with. This might be
endearingly silly to some readers, but it's just out-and-out silly to
my mind. No wonder it took me so long to read it.

I've got Wodehouse in many different editions; this Arrow paperback is
well presented although it presents the first eight pages of another
Wodehouse at the end as a teaser to buy more books in the series, a
publisher habit I've never enjoyed (If you enjoyed this book, you'll
love this other book by the same writer).

I used to read Wodehouse as my light reading book after every serious
book. I've got other light reading books to get through as well but
I'm confident I'll read another Wodehouse again soon and at least
another four in 2023. The next Wodehouse I read will be better than
this one.

There's a curse of Wodehouse books being published under different
in the United States. The US title of this book, "The Cat-nappers" is
for once far superiour to the English title.
                                       
                                       30th April 2023.

Scared that I've under-rated a Wodehouse novel, I gave this book an
instant re-read. The re-read was much faster and very enjoyable.
While my first reading would have scored this book 4 out of 10 my
re-read (which was much faster) scored this book as 7.5 out of 10. In
particular the first person voice of Wooster is very enjoyable; the
style of the book is very enjoyable. It reads as though it is is set
in the 1920s; certainly between World War 1 and World War 2.

                                       9th May 2023.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
