BAD BLOOD by John Carreyou

2018. Picador. Paperback.

This is a book I've wanted to read for a while and once I started
reading it it was an enjoyable fast read. I think I like I.T disaster
stories rather than I.T roaring success stories. Call me cynical.

The premise behind Theranos always sounded too good to be
true. Hundreds of blood tests on a portable machine that needed just a
small blood sample from a prick in the finger? Pull the other
one. Unfortunately lots of investors and employees and board members
and business partners were taken in.

Elizabeth Holmes is a college dropout. In Australia a college dropout
is someone who can't handle the study and doesn't finish their degree;
in the US a college dropout is someone who doesn't need to finish
their degree because of the superb business opportunities already
available that you might as well take now rather than stay at Uni.

Holmes starts up a company Theranos, with help from her Stanford
connections and her partner Sunny; twenty years her senior. They
overpromise the capabilities of their blood testing machines and end
up doing most of the tests on conventional third-party equipment
anyhow.

A who's-who of Republican legends sit on the Theranos board.
George Shultz, Henry Kissinger and military men lend their money,
names and gravitas to the startup company; which could be a unicorn
and have a higher valuation than Facebook or Uber.

Nothing works and the pilot projects with chemists, department stores
and Pfizer are all failures. Staff turnover is remarkably high and
Elizabeth and Sonny run the organisation tyrannically and
non-disclosure agreements are everywhere and are strictly enforced.

Holmes is said repeatedly in the book to have a deep, low
speaking-voice; though some other sources have suggested this was a
put-on and she had a normal female voice. She worshipped Steve Jobs
and adopted black turtle-neck sweaters and various Jobs mannerisms
such as Wednesday afternoon weekly meetings. Right at the end of the
book, John Carreyou says she was "fake-it-till-you-make-it" and was
using overpromising Silicon Valley ideas that you can get away with in
Software-only companies but you can't in tightly-regulared medicine.

                                         22nd December 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
