CROSSING THE LINE by Gideon Haigh

2018. Sports Shorts/Slattery Media. Paperback.

Gideon Haigh is one of Australia's best cricket writers. His book on
the World Series Cricket split of the 1970s, The Cricket War, is
definitive. I've owned a few non-cricket books of his over the years
(The Office, Brilliant Boy H.V. Evatt) but found those uninteresting
and so I've donated those. He wrote a Penguin Special on the fall
of Australia's newspapers in the face of the online challenge, The
Deserted Newsroom, that I read years ago and very much enjoyed.

"Crossing the Line" is Haigh's independent Cultural Review of
Australian Cricket, after the Sandpapergate South African disgrace
of March 2018. Haigh writes that Crossing the Line originates in a
simple idea, that nobody goes to bed honest and wakes up a cheat.
The drift to corruption occurs bit by bit. The subheading, How
Australian Cricket lost its way, is perfect.

In many of my book reviews I complain about how I lose interest and it
takes me two weeks to read a book but that was not a problem with
Crossing the Line, I read it inside twenty-four hours. It's a page
turner. I was a bit disillusioned with Australian cricket even before
Sandpapergate, I'm even more disillusioned with it after reading
Crossing the Line.

The faults seem to be increasing managerialism creeping into Cricket
Australia, dating back to the famous Argus Review. Managers become
obsessed with performance measurement, pathways to success, a youth
competition where only three players can be older than 23, and the
bane of every true cricket traditionalist, Twenty/20 Cricket and
the glitz and glamour of the Big Bash Leagues. Trying to keep up
with the AFL hasn't helped Australian cricket either.

I'd thought from the size of the paperback that Crossing the Line
might be a collection of Haigh's newspaper columns, but it's a
standalone work and an excellent read. I was going to donate the book
after reading, and I'll offer it to a cricket-loving friend, but it'll
be a friend donation not a Lifeline donation. I very much enjoyed
reading it.

                                            18th December 2024.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
