DECLINE AND FALL by Evelyn Waugh

(1928) 1970. Penguin Books. Paperback.

My copy of Decline and Fall is in a state of such decline that I've
only just restrained myself from throwing it into the recycle bin on
more than one occasion. The top right corner of the cover seems
silverfish-eaten and the spine is not long for this world. I read the
book inside a week as part of a "read, review and throwaway"
initiative.

The book was so entertaining that I won't throw it away; I'll keep it
for now, even though it's in the state of decline just mentioned and
to top it off the cover "design" is truly hideous. This book is now in
a "replace then re-read" pattern and until it's replaced with a cheap
copy at a Lifeline sale I'll keep the tattered old one.

Another book I did exactly the same thing with was the Ian Fleming
James Bond book "Moonraker"; the replacement copy was in gorgeous
Penguin Modern Classics silver.

I've read a lot of P.G Wodehouse and it's greatly to Evelyn Waugh's
credit that Decline and Fall stands up against Wodehouse's books. It's
better plotted and the class consciousness is better observed. Like
Wodehouse, Decline and Fall is in the mid-war England of the 1920s,
but the effects of World War I are felt in it.

There's some racism towards Negros that wouldn't survive modern
editing and at least Evelyn Waugh hasn't been cancelled. There's
even more racism towards the Welsh which is easier and more fun to
read.

Quick plot summary: Paul Pennyfeather is kicked out of Scone College,
Oxford, after a misunderstanding on the Bollinger Club muck-up night
(his tie resembles the club tie). He's given a job as a schoolteacher
in a castle in Wales amidst the comic characters of Philbrick the
conman butler, Prenderghast the doubting Churchman and Grimes the
wooden-legged public school man, whose career and life have been saved
several times by old school tie connections.

Pennyfeather falls under the spell of Lady Margot Beste-Chetwynde,
widowed mother of one of the pupils. Just as he is about to marry her,
she sends him to France on a mission to rescue her new young ladies
being sent to a life of dancing and worse in South America. He's
arrested for the white slave trade and part three of the book is in
Prison.

Pennyfeather is eventually sprung from prison and after relaxing in
Greece, returns to Oxford under a new identity. His old pupil joins
him at Oxford and drinks with him on Bollinger Club night.

Frank Muir quoted this early line in his Oxford Book of Humorous
Prose, "I expect you'll become a schoolmaster, sir. That's what
most of the gentlemen does, sir, that gets sent down for indecent
behaviour".

On cue, as I was lifting the book to get the above quote right, the
cover has just detached itself from the rest of the book. I'm temtped
to pick the sixteen-page proofreading quartos apart, each one
indicated with DF-I, DF-2 and make this book into 13 quartos. I used
to love the proofreading indications in the Doctor Who paperbacks, the
one I remember is DWATPOTS, pronounced "dwatt potts", which was Doctor
Who and the Planet of the Spiders. If I rip the book apart like this,
I'll really need a replacement copy!

                                            8th March 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
