DIAL M FOR MURDOCH by Tom Watson and Martin Hickman

2012. Allen Lane. Paperback.

I need to start with an important disclaimer. I worked for News
Corporation, Australia, during the time the UK Phone Hacking scandal
covered here reached its climax with the closure of the News of the World.
I was as far away from the UK tabloid shenanigans as was possible - my
work involved supporting the new Paywalls for The Australian and
The Daily Telegraph and also the carsguide.com.au car-selling website.
I also spent many months building a fifth Perl server on Linux; an
important part of the Australian mastheads publishing chain but totally
unrelated to UK tabloids. That said, I was part of the Murdoch
Empire.

This is a fantastic book where the end of the story is well known in
advance. The News of the World newspaper has closed, Rupert Murdoch
has had to appear in a public parliamentary enquiry and News International's
takeover bid for BSkyB has been withdrawn in the face of public disgrace.
The great skill in the book is the forensic lead up to this climax.

The phone hacking (mainly the illegal access of people's mobile phone
voicemails) had happened for years and was endemic to UK tabloids.
News Corporation had strong influences in Scotland Yard and major
Political parties. The book makes News Corporation, especially The
Sun, out to be kingmakers for the Thatcher, Blair and Cameron
governments. Scared politicians and corrupt policemen, many of them
paid by News for tip-offs, are too frightened to investigate the
company properly.

One fact well worth remembering from this book is that the police
relied on a narrow definition of phone hacking being illegal only if a
voicemail hadn't already been listened to by the intended
recipient. This was bollocks (as they say in the UK) but was used by
Scotland Yard for years as an excuse for their lax
investigations. Also interesting is that the UK left-wing press
(the Guardian and the Independent) couldn't get the rest of the UK
press interested early on, and added to the pressure on NewsCorp by
getting The New York Times involved.

I love the tabloids and the media, but like every facet of society
they need to be accountable and this book shows what happens when
a media company gets too big for its boots and runs roughshod over
impotent regulators.

A second book on this subject is "Hack Attack" by Nick Davies, who
is mentioned often and with approval in this book.

There's a bit of repetition in "Dial M"; you soon get tired of an
email called "for Neville". There's an amusing typo; David Cameron and
Charlie Brooks are said to regularly go hacking in the Oxfordshire
countryside on page 78 instead of hunting! The writers of the book
have hacking on the brain, understandably. My copy of the book has no
index; the contents promise me one but the book abruptly finishes
right before it. This is quite fun given the subject matter and the
feeling of paranoia that runs through the book. Perhaps private
investigators, acting under illegal NewsCorp instructions, hacked into
the computers of AllenLane/Penguin and were able to remove the index
from my printing of the book.

The book has been reissued in the lovely creamy-spine Penguin
non-fiction format, I might re-buy it secondhand when I find that edition
cheaply enough, especially if it has the index. My current copy is
unnecessarily large and I prefer my paperbacks small where possible.
My copy is 230mm high by 150mm wide, and the smaller creamy-spines
are typically 198mm high by 128mm wide.

                                     30th March 2020

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
