DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER by Ian Fleming

(1956) 2004. Penguin Modern Classics. Paperback.

This is the fourth of the Ian Fleming James Bond novels and so far
it's been the worst. I got very sick early in my reading of this book
and I'm not entirely sure it's not the book's fault. Because I was
reading some of this book in a state of fever I didn't enjoy the book
as well as I would have, and some of the incidents have been poorly
remembered or misremembered.

The story is very simple and James Bond has very little spy work or
detecting to do. Felix Leiter turns up (now working for Pinkerton's
Detective Agency as his Live and Let Die shark injuries cost him
quite literally an arm and a leg).

Fleming can't help criticise the US Mob many times in the book; he
seems to hate his own characters here in a way that he never did in
the first three Bonds. Moonraker has been, so far for me, by far the
best of the Bonds; this is a severe let-down after the high of the
third book.

The Sean Connery movie does a lot with the source material in this book
and re-uses quite cleverly the Scorpion in Africa, the mud-baths and
the Tiffany Case character. The movie grafts on Blofeld and a Spectre plot;
not in the book although there is a Wild-West mock-up town called
Spectreville in the book; which has nothing whatsoever to do with the
evil group Spectre.

Ian Fleming wrote a non-fiction book, The Diamond Smugglers, which I have
no interest in reading and presumably covers the same Diamond smuggling
ideas as this James Bond novel. Actually I have no great desire to
re-read Diamonds are Forever for the rest of my life but I suppose I'll
give it another look in ten years or so.

Next up is From Russia with Love. It will be better than this.

                                             19th November 2023

20 November 2023: I read some other reviews of Diamonds are Forever
on the Internet and it looks like they agree with me. Also I'm 50 pages
into From Russia With Love already and it's looking a whole lot better.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
