FLASH BOYS by Michael Lewis. 

Penguin 2014. Paperback.

Seven years ago I read and reviewed (for my personal github) "Dial M
for Murdoch" while working for Rupert Murdoch's News Corp in Sydney. I
was peripheral to the scandals but I did work for the organisation; at
the time they closed The News of the World.

In 2022 I've landed in a new scandal and this time I'm in the thick of
it. Proprietary Trading Firms (hereafter "Props") are stealing money
from the sharemarket. Flash Boys explains how and the history and
personalities involved, together with a small group trying to stop
it.

We'll get to all of that later. A lot of my personal history is needed
first and my son Linus is integral to this too. I'll try to keep
everything as chronological as possible.

Canberra, June 2017. Linus, my brother Grahame and I are in Parliament
House for a presentation ceremeony for Australian Olympiad
teams. Linus is in the team with the most history and prestige, the
Mathematics Olympiad team. Students had to write a paragraph to
accompany their picture in the program booklet. I wrote Linus's
paragraph; here it is in full.

Linus has had a love of numbers, patterns and logic since he was a
child. With a keen interest in languages and board games, Linus is
looking forward to meeting talented students from all around the world
at the International Mathematical Olympiad. When asked about his plans
for the future, Linus said "I expect I will be involved in research
and algorithms, possibly connected with finance".

When I did Maths at University, 1989-1992, the graduate jobs for the
Maths whizzes were as Actuaries in Insurance, or Academia. There was a
whisper of jobs for the Defence Signals Directorate; code-breaking
spies. Thirty year later, financial mathematics is prevalent, so I
wrote Linus's paragraph with a view to his post-Uni employment and
with a nod to the Australian Maths Olympiad sponsor, Optiver.

University of Sydney, March  2019. Linus is now in his first year of
University and I drive him to campus during a long period where I'm
not working. I'm on campus myself for a few hours here and there and I
go to a few graduate fairs for Maths, Computer Science and Engineering
students. A lot of the companies hand out branded playing cards and
poker chips. Optiver, SIG, Jane Street and Flow Traders are the four
that I remember; there were probably one or two more.

Sydney. Septeber 2022. I'm now working for a Prop; a trading company
in High Frequency Trading. The company doesn't have customers; and
uses their own money to make money trading on the share market;
millions of trades per day. How do they make their money?

HFT companies exploit differences in the market at nanosecond speed
(thousand-millionths of a second). When a big buy order arrives at an
exchange, a share price will go up. With this foreknowledge, HFT
companies buy that stock at a different exchange, racing the
information at near-light speed. This technique is called
"Front-running" (there are plenty of others and new techniques are
being worked on all the time). The Props have their computers right
next to the actual trading computers and as soon as trading opens each
day, the race is on.

In Australia the exchanges are in the Sydney suburbs of Mascot and
Artarmon. In the US the action is across many sites in New Jersey, and
Chicago.

Flash Boys is written as a detective story. Wall Street traders keep
seeing the prices of their trades change from under their noses as
Props discover their buy and sell intentions as soon as they
trade. Props beat them to their own trades; and the Wall Street
traders have to pay more than the quoted price to buy, and get less
than the quoted price when they sell. Money is disappearing from the
market.

The heroes of Flash Boys discover the market unfairness and create
their own fairer exchange, IEX, investorsexchange. They don't register
that Internet name as a website because investorsexchange reads badly
if you break after the letter "r". Standing up for the little man,
they try to give investors a properly level playing field.

I was supposed to read this book a year ago, before starting my
current job in this Prop firm. I'm kicking myself that I didn't. If
you work in a Prop firm, this book will change your life. It opened my
eyes to the tricks and shady ethics that these firms employ to make
money from thin air.

I'm reminded of two great modern movies. In The Firm, hotshot taxation
law graduate Tom Cruise discovers that his first dream tax/law job is
washing money for a Mafia family, among more legitimate clients. In
The Matrix, gifted Keanu Reeves takes the Blue Pill and sees that the
world, which he'd always suspected was a bit wrong, is totally
different to the simulation that everyone else lives through.

Flash Boys is the Blue Pill of High Frequency Trading. Linus's future
is in academia. And my future is back in Telco.


                                     16th September 2022

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
