FOR YOUR EYES ONLY by Ian Fleming

(1960) 2012. Vintage Classcis. Paperback.

A change of publisher for this 8th book in the James Bond series, and
a change of writing format. My "10 James Bond silver classics" Penguin
box left out four of the fourteen James Bond books, see my review of
Casino Royale for the details. This very nice Vintage Classics edition
comes with a strange logo on the back cover and title page; "Ian
Fleming Publications Limited" with a hummingbird and a mock
signature. It's almost like a heraldic shield guaranteeing the reader
bonus Ian Fleming authenticity.

The format for this book is short stories, we get five of them. I've
always pigeonholed writers into their main format and not believed
that a good novelist could be a good short story writer also. Likewise
a major novelist also important as a poet is considered to me to be
simply a novelist. 

Saki is a short story writer not a novelist.
Thomas Hardy is a novelist not a poet.
Robert Graves is a novelist not a poet.

P.G Wodehouse writes novels not short stories, except in his golf
books which are collections of (fairly uninteresting) golf
stories. Jeeves works better in novels.

F.Scott Fitzgerald might be the writer who works best across short and
long story formats and in For Your Eyes Only, Ian Fleming does very
well as a short story writer.

The first story, From a View to a Kill, sees Fleming taking tentative
steps away from the SMERSH format. The villains of the first seven
James Bond books were all connected with SMERSH, apart from Dr No who
was developing useful missile altering technology that the Russians
and Cubans would be very interested in. From a View to a Kill sees a
small independent group causing trouble, which bothers Bond more than
the Russian Bear.

"Private armies, private wars. How much energy they siphoned off from
the common cause, how much fire they directed away from the common
enemy!".

The title short story, For Your Eyes Only, is the cousin of the incident
from Goldfinger where Jill Masterson tries to assassinate Goldfinger
in Europe to avenge the death of her sister. In For Your Eyes Only,
Judy Havelock gets to kill the Cuban who killed her parents, in
Canada, with a bow and arrow. Bond provides important back-up and
sniper shoots the others in the group.

The middle story, Quantum of Solace, is a highly imaginative story and
features no spying or shooting. Bond listens to the Nassau Governor
relate a story of a marriage gone wrong between an air hostess and an
awkward Civil servant, more comfortable with the friendly Nigerians of
his first posting than his own people.

Story four, Risico, is a rollicking drug smuggling story in Italy with
an excellent misdirection on who the villains really are. The last
story, The Hildebrand Rarity, sees Bond hunt for a rare tropical fish
in the luxury yacht of Milton Krest, who sadistically whips his
suffering wife with a whip made of a stingray tail.

That's the problem with short story collections, you feel like you
have to quickly review each tale in book.

Ian Fleming is able to be more inventive in the short story format,
trying out ideas that are developed in the full-length James Bond
stories to come. The third-party SMERSH-less group in From a View to a
Kill becomes SPECTRE in the very next book, Thunderball. The Bond-less
story of Quantum of Solace becomes the Bond-less opening to The Spy
Who Loved Me.

There's a nice short introduction to these stories by Ian Rankin
in the Vintage Classics edition and it's a book I'm pleased to own
(just as well that Penguin Silver Classics set only had Ten). If I see
the other Vintage Classics Bonds cheaply enough second hand I might
get others in the series; although I've found that Ian Flemings can be
tricky to find at second hand booksales. Either they get snapped up
pretty quickly, or people like to hang onto their James Bond books and
not donate them.

Speaking of booksales, as I was halfway through I got a Penguin book
of "The Complete James Bond Short Stories" called Quantum of
Solace. It's For Your Eyes Only and Octopussy in one volume, the
stories are kept in the correct order. I amused myself by mixing my
reading of the final For Your Eyes Only stories between the Vintage
and the Penguin editions; I enjoyed the Vintage more because the
typeface was bigger (Penguin's Quantum of Solace is a small-format
paperback).

A final nice touch in the VINTAGE 007 book, borrowed from the movies,
is that the very last page in the book, after "The Story of Vintage"
publisher guff, informs me that James Bond will return in Thunderball.

The movie of For Your Eyes Only was quite forgettable, Roger Moore's
second last outing before his final redemption film "A View to a
Kill". By far the best thing about it was the lovely theme song, sung
by up-and-coming UK Pop star Sheena Easton.
                                             
                                             24th February 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
