GOING INFINITE by Michael Lewis

2023. Penguin Books. Paperback.

This is a book I've been wanting to get my hands on for some time, and
I almost bought it at the full price of $25 but I held off and got my
used copy for $5. I read it hot on the heels of another collapsed
business story (Bad Blood, Theranos). It can be more enjoyable to read
the story of business failures than rah-rah Google/Facebook/Uber
success tales.

I read 90% of this on Christmas Day and could have finished the entire
book in 24 hours but there were the excesses of lunch to sleep off.

There are excellent early chapters on Sam Bankman-Fried's life as a
Jane Street trader and the "treat everything as a gamble, quantify any
situation" mindset at that company. This works nicely as a sequel to
Lewis's great expose of High Frequency Trading, Flash Boys. SBF's
unusual childhood is given good coverage. There is also excellent
coverage of EA, Effective Altruism, the philosophy to save as much of
humanity as you can by giving away large amounts of your wealth to the
best bang-for-buck projects. The concept came to SBF through Oxford
Philosophers who got it from one of the strangest Australian thinkers,
Peter Singer. It's a hard philosophy to understand but it seems useful
for people who don't have normal human relationships, will never have
kids and won't get married, and will need some meaning in their lives
beyond wealth. Indeed throughout Going Infinite SBF seems to wear
daggy clothes and eschew any trappings of success; beyond overpaying
for celebrity endorsements for FTX from sports stars and
Hollywood/Music superstars including Katy Perry and Taylor Swift.

Lewis ignores or plays down sensational aspects of the disastrous
FTX/Alameda Research collapse. The polyamorous living conditions of
the principals in the Bahamas is shrugged off; they were all working
long hours and their sleeping quarters would just be used for
multiplayer gaming. Drugs aren't mentioned at all; the youngsters were
working such long days that surely amphetamines or ketamine was
involved. The company seemed to employ nobody over the age of
thirty-five; the only wise head at the company was the psychiatrist.
Even the presence of Sam's Dad in the company doesn't help; he is
presented as scared of his own genius son.

Michael Lewis seems too close to his subject, Sam Bankman-Fried. It's
the fault of regulators if FTX and Alameda were able to shift money
between the companies illegaly. SBF is shown throughout as a
games-playing kid who loves it when the rules of the game change in
real time; but it seems to be that Lewis also absolves him of any
responsibility. Lewis shows in the afterword chapter (new to my
paperback edition) that he had excellent access to SBF before his
trial. Is it possible that he was entranced by SBF and he is an
unreliable narrator of the story? He seems firmly on the side of the
kids and doesn't respect the existing financial infrastructure. In the
final chapter he's not helping the FTX administators hunt down the
missing money and he's so close to SBF that it seems that "Going
Infinite" might even be used in court trials.

One of my favourite works of fiction, Big Brother by Lionel Shriver
has a huge section of an unreliable narrator; as the author pretends
she was able to meaningfully help her fat brother lose weight and turn
his life around, even at the cost of her own marriage, until the
effort of unreliable narration becomes too much and the story returns
to the harsh reality.

An annoying ommission in the book is that Lewis mentions Magic the
Gathering but doesn't connect it to the mtgox.com crash. Lewis leaves
the history of Bitcoin to other writers; but he owes his readers a bit
more on the history of Bitcoin Exchanges and earlier crashes. Apart
from sacked FTX staff themselves, few victims of the FTX crash are
identified. The extraordinary behaviour of SBF where his own staff are
forbidden to cash out their tokens when he changes the rules of the
game is mentioned by Lewis but not harshly criticised (Sam just loves
games where the rules keep changing in real-time, and if employees
cash out huge profits they won't be motivated to work eighteen-hour
days).

This is a hugely entertaining book but I can't help think that Michael
Lewis goes too easy on Sam Bankman-Fried and paints him in the best
possible light and undeservedly so. I've updated this review a few
times as new thoughts come to mind; I may even give it a full re-read
in the next six weeks.

                                         26th December 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
