GOLDFINGER by Ian Fleming

(1959)  2004. Penguin Modern Classics. Paperback.

This is the first James Bond book I touched, my family had a small
hardback book-of-the-month-club style edition. It is the third and
best of the James Bond movies and probably the second best of the
Ian Fleming books, From Russia With Love being the best.

In the two earlier Bond novels set largely in the USA, Live and Let
Die and Diamonds are Forever, Ian Fleming doesn't like Americans but
there are no problems with anti-US sentiment in Goldfinger. Fleming
likes Yankees after all.

I re-watched the classic Sean Connery Goldfinger movie as I was
reading this book. The 1964 movie is widely considered the best James
Bond movie. Doctor No is a bit slow paced, Ursula Andress in a
two-piece bikini is the highlight. From Russia With Love is better but
is perhaps too faithful to the book. Goldfinger hits the jackpot and
all the elements fall into place. These elements include a memorable
theme song, a scene with Q, a stunt at the beginning and a beautiful
actress from the TV show "The Avengers". In Goldfinger it's Honor
Blackman, we later get Diana Rigg. The third Avengers girl, Linda
Thorson, was said to be disappointed she didn't get a Bond role, and
the lovely lady from the New Avengers, Joanna Lumley, also sadly
missed out.

Here are some important improvements in the movie. Bond is chasing
Goldfinger the entire time, he doesn't stumble across Junius Du Pont
at Miami Airport. Bond sees Jill Masterson's dead gold body with his
own eyes. The SMERSH aspect of Goldfinger is dropped, he's just an
independent supervillain. When chasing Goldfinger's car, Bond's
tracker has a map attached to it and no guesswork is needed. Tilly
Masterson dies from Oddjob's hat in Europe not Fort Knox. Oddjob dies
more entertaingly in the movie. Finally, Goldfinger isn't stealing the
Fort Knox gold, he's nuking it to make it unusable for 60 years and
increase the value of his own gold holdings ten-fold.

Is this how vested stock options work?

The best improvement in the movie is that James Bond's midriff is
threatened by a laser beam; in the book it's a circular
saw. Laser beams are much more threatening to one's manhood.

I'm now at the halfway point of my James Bond read-a-thon; seven down
and seven to go. I'll continue reading the books three-at-a-time, so
my next two books are For Your Eyes Only and Thunderball.

                                              5th February 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
