HEART OF THE GAME: 45 years of (Australian Rules) Football on Television

2001. Hardie Grant books. Hardback. Edited by Michael Roberts.

This mid-sized hardback coffee-table book is the story of VFL and AFL
football from the point of view of their main broadcaster, Channel Seven.
It bridges the two worlds well; with good footy content and good TV
content, on the commentators and the personalities involved in TV footy
in Victoria over the years.

As the book is Channel Seven specific, there's very little mention of
the ABC or Channel Nine, and even less mention of the fact that this
book was rushed out just as Seven had lost the AFL rights to a Nine/Ten
consortium. The shadow of Channel Nine's hugely popular Thursday night
Footy Show looms over the other variety Footy shows written about
in this book.

I read this book in the Coronavirus panic when there had been no AFL
for three weeks (it seems like twenty weeks) and I'd take any
whatever new (to me) AFL content I could get. It was a great read
and works very well as a coffee-table book, with an appealing mix of
pictures, good design and some fun cartouche "breakout" articles amid
longer chapters. My favourites of these were the articles on
"The Comedy Cup", "Marathon Man" and the "I'd like to see that" advertising
campaign.

"Heart of the Game" was also a TV special but I think
it works better as a book; I tried watching some of that special
on YouTube but much preferred the book where I could enjoy it at
my own pace.

Another work of Footy art I've been enjoying lately is a Channel 7
Music CD, "Songs of the Century", a collection of many of their footy
songs and TV themes from footy and tennis over the years; featuring
all my footy favourites and some very dated tennis songs. Tennis,
a song says, "brings out the best in the girls". The CD covers
the same area of TV Nostalgia as this book does, and was another
Coronavirus-era piece of new footy content.

                                       9th April 2020

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
