LEAVE IT TO PSMITH by P G Wodehouse

2008. (1923) Arrow. Paperback.

Psmith is one of my favourite Wodehouse characters and the first book
that really turned me onto Wodehouse was "Psmith in the City" that I
somehow had in a small gorgeous hardback edition. Leave it to Psmith
is the fourth and final of the Psmith stories; linking him with
Blandings Castle where he usurps the position of the secretary there,
The Efficient Baxter.

Wodehouse was really hitting his stride in the 1920s and most of his
books seem set in that happy period. In this story the younger
generation need money, to start up a bookmaking period or just to get
ahead, and the theft of a 20,000 pound Necklace seems the best way to
get their money.

I switched to other books 50 pages in, and returning to Leave it to
Psmith I'd forgotten some of the earlier incidents and characters,
which made things confusing but the language remained splendid. The
last Wodehouse I read, Aunts Aren't Gentlemen, I instantly re-read
because I was afraid that it was better than I originally gave it
credit for (it was a little, but still wasn't top-notch Wodehouse by
any stretch). For a while in my finishing of Leave It, I was tempted
for an instant re-read just to make sure I was understanding the plot,
but on finishing it I've decided an instant re-read wasn't necessary.

I guess you don't read Wodehouse for the plots, you read it for the
jokes and the language and I was certainly able to fully appreciate
both in the one reading.

I read many of the Wodehouses around eight years ago. They can easily
be read piecemeal and I don't think a "read all the Wodehouses in
order" project would be worthwhile; compared to my current project to
read all the Ian FLeming James Bonds in order. Wodehouse remains for
me a comfort author, someone to return to again and again after
reading longer novels, where something light and easy and joyous is
called for.

                                       20th December 2023.

1954. (1923) Penguin (Orange classic style original). Paperback.

Going through my box of Wodehouse books I've re-discovered that I have
a classic red/white Leave it to Psmith. My writing in the book tells
me I got the book for $4.50 in Melbourne im November 2010, and my
first reading of it was in August 2011. The pages are very brown and I
might one day be strong enough to toss the book out; for now I'll put
it on my "duplicates" table. Much as I love Penguin books, the newer
Arrow edition reviewed above was easier to read and if I only keep
one, the classic Red Penguin needs to go. -- 19th February 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
