LIFE IN HIS HAND by Susan Wyndham

2008. Picador. Paperback.

Most of my reviews for booksiveread are from first or fresh readings,
but this review is from a book I read in December 2021, before I
started the github booksiveread project. I've had this book on my
reading table for a re-read but today I've decided to simply provide a
historical review and not re-read it and garage the book to make space
on my reading table.

Life in His Hands is the story of gun young Australian pianist Aaron
McMillan and his brain surgeon Dr Charlie Teo. McMillan, a keen
crickter and cricket coach along with his pianistic gifts, develops a
brain tumour. The book follows his cancer journey and work with
specialist Dr Charlie Teo.

Dr Teo is a controversial figure in Australia's medical community and
has had various indignities heaped on him over the years. He turns up
in the news quite regularly and every time there's a story about him I
feel like writing and updating this review, but as much as possible
I'll keep this review about the Life in His Hands book only. I will
say that two of the recent stories were Dr Teo forced to drive Ubers
to make ends meet and having onerous conditions attached to his
Australian surgery. He's since moved to China and is now performing
surgery in different countries than Australia.

I got the CD set of Aaron McMillan's performances at a Lifeline sale,
a live performance at the Opera House including Schubert's F Minor
Impromptu Opus 142 Number 1 was fantastic, of a piece that I don't
really like very much. Right at the end of his life, he learned the
Rachmaninoff D Major Prelude.

Knowing that his days were limited, McMillan threw himself into
concertising and releasing recordings and encouraging Australian
composers and other performers. He lost money on most of his ventures
but he left wonderful recordings and a legacy.

I read Life in his Hands in just three days in December 2021; author
Susan Wyndham is a Sydney Morning Herald Weekend Magazine writer so
has the journalist's touch for writing clearly and writing a good
story. Of all the books in my library, it was one of the fastest books
to read, and the hardest to re-read.

                                            10th March 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
