LOS ALAMOS by Joseph Kanon

1997. Abacus. Paperback.

This fictional thriller was the first long treatment of The Manhattan
Project that I read and is one of my favourite thrillers. I enjoyed it
so much on my first reading that for years I bought Kanon's subsequent
thrillers and I've read two more of them (The Prodigal Spy, The Good
German). Once I finish all the Ian Flemings, I'll work my way through
the Joseph Kanon Canon.

I haven't read this book for years, enough time has passed that I was
able to re-read it without knowing how the story would unfold or who
the criminals were. I suspect a gap of at least three years should
occur between re-reads of thrillers.

Los Alamos is such a thriller that the name of the main character is
Michael Connolly, just a vowel away from being idential to the great
US crime thriller author Michael Connelly of the Harry Bosch series.
Oppenheimer and Groves are characters in this book the same way that
Alan Turing is in Cryptonoicon or Robert Harris's Enigma.

My paperback has newspaper reviews on the front and back cover and the
Boston Globe's description of this book as a "love story inside a
murder mystery inside perhaps the most significant story of the 20th
Century; the making of the atomic bomb" is a perfect summary of the
book.

Connolly the fictional character is sent to Los Alamos to investigate
the murder of a security officer from "the hill", seemingly a gay hate
crime but with project security at stake perhaps something a lot more
sinister. Like many of the scientists, the dead security officer has a
European past, and everyone has ghosts in their past.

To give some mystery to the story, the traitor getting project
information out to the Russians isn't Klaus Fuchs from Germany via
Britain it's (fictitious) Friedrich Eisler, who "accidentally" kills
himself by exposure to radiation. To try to shut down the information
path to Russia, Connolly poses as a new source of information and the
contacts are eliminated.

A small titbit I enjoyed in this book is that there's a mural of
drawings by James Thurber in a New York Hotel. The book finishes with
the successful Trinity test and the hero's hope that the increasing
paranoia and spies upon spies upon spies won't consume Oppenheimer's
future.

The Oppenheimer story has now been told in several formats:
Thriller fiction (Los Alamos)
Non-fiction (American Prometheus)
Opera (Doctor Atomic)
and
Film (Oppenheimer)

I can't think of any other art form that needs an Oppenheimer
treatment, these four diverse works of art are more than sufficient to
do the story justice.

                                       30th April 2024.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
