LOVE AMONG THE CHICKENS by P G Wodehouse

1921 (1906) Herbert Jenkins. Hardback.

The back cover publisher notes state "The authoer has entirely
re-written the book for this edition" so I'll consider this the 1921
Love Among the Chickens and not the 1906 one and I'm not such a
Wodehouse absolutist that I wish to track down and read the 1906 one.

This is a fantastic Wodehouse that introduces the character Ukridge,
who alsways purchases itens on tick (credit) and feels insulted when
his creditors chase up the ever-mounting accounts. I read the Ukridge
book of short-stories years ago and look forward to re-reading them
again this year.

Ukridge is a dreamer and the world's worst chicken farmer. He tries
to save money by running a chicken incubator well below the
recommended temperature and his newly established chicken farm doesn't
produce the expected moutain of eggs to repay all his
creditors. The heros on the farm get sick of eating chicken, eggs and
omlettes day and night for every meal.

If my memory is correct there was a famous Penguin Special in World
War 2 about how to keep chickens on small plots of land, to help the
Britons in the privations of the wartime years. It's a pity Ukridge
didn't have access to this invaluable resource in 1906.

Wodehouse is in sparkling form in this book; the plotting works well
(not that plots are that essential in Wodehouse but when they work
well the books are even better) and the language and the jokes are
excellent. Most of my Wodehouse books are in more modern paperbacks
but there was a dated yellowing Herbert Jenkins hardback. It was easy
enough to read although I had a felt-tip black pen handy to fill in
half-printed letters on a few of the pages, so that my second reading
of this book in a few years' time will be easier.

I read the last two-thirds of this book in a single night and it was
very pleasurable indeed. Golf is central to the plot of Love Among the
Chickens and it's used in just the right amount (compared to
Wodehouse's three Golf books which are all entirely devoted to the
sport). A little internet research was needed to look up some dated
words but for a comic novel that's now over a hundred years old, this
book has held up magnificently. The most important aspect of Love
Among the Chickens is how much fun it was to read.

                                            22nd May 2024.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread

