TREVOR MARMALADES'S FOOTY SHOW JOKES
and
TREVOR MARMALADES'S FOOTY SHOW JOKE BOOK 2

2001. Hardie Grant Books. Paperback.
2006. Hardie Grant Books. Paperback.

Standup comedy works best live, then on TV, then finally on
the printed page. These two books are collections of one-liners from
Trevor Marmalade, the comedian "over by the bar" from Channel Nine's
wildly successful Footy Show.

I never got to watch as much of the Footy Show as I like, since I live
in Sydney, New South Wales and they screened the Rugby League version
of the Footy Show from 930pm and the AFL version didn't come on until
about midnight. The AFL version was a lot better than the NRL version,
but of course didn't rate well in the League-loving Northern states.

The AFL footy show was fantastic in its heyday. The by-play between
Collingwood lover (and soon to be President) Eddie McGuire and Sam
Newman was the main feature, Marmalade was the dependable court
jester.

The first book is a delight, the second book uses a much larger format
with lots of whitespace and less content spread to thirty more
pages. This is a big disappointment to book lovers who
can't easily display the books side by side in their bookshelves. I
doubt there are too many book lovers besides myself wishing to display
ephemeral "ideal Father's Day gift" AFL footy joke books side-by-side
on their shelves, but I'm one of them.

The publisher, Hardie Grant, has been in the news this week, having
published Malcolm Turnbull's memoirs, "A Bigger Picture". This looks a
real departure for South Yarra publisher Hardie Grant, who have
specialised in lightweight AFL biographies until now, to my
knowledge. They might not have the best security compared to the major
publishers; a hacked PDF of the book was emailed from the Prime
Minister's office to many politicians, to save them the trouble of
buying the book. This was a minor scandal for a few days and didn't
reflect well on the publisher. I haven't seen Turnbull's book (I'll
buy it for $10 or so at the next secondhand booksale) but I know
without seeing it that it will get more serious design and layout then
Trevor Marmalade's Footy Show Joke Book 2.

My favourite non-footy joke in the collection is Marmalade enthusing
about The Great Wall of China. "It's amazing. I've been to it. You can
see the moon from there."

Marmalade is a North Melbourne supporter, as is my high school and
University friend Jamie Evans, who did his best to convince me at the
time that one day I would love Australian Rules Football to the
exclusion of all other football. How right he was.

The Footy Show is no more, and it was a sign of the end times when
Marmalade was dropped at the end of 2008, presumably as a
cost-cutting measure (the NRL footy show dropped their comedian in the
same year). Marmalade's influence lives on, in the success of new AFL
variety show "The Front Bar" (basically three comedians "over at the
Bar") and in the fantastic work of AFL comedian, podcaster and
sports author, Titus O'Reily.

I've now read three AFL books in the current Coronavirus shutdown, and
all of them have been related to AFL on Television (see "Heart of the
Game" for the other one). Without footy on TV, this is the best I can
do right now, a substitute in hard times.

                                             21st April 2020

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
