MOONRAKER by Ian Fleming

1955. Pan. Paperback.

Packing up books in Flemington I couldn't resist a re-read of
Moonraker, and a rollicking quick read it was too; finishing the
whole book in a few reading sessions in less than 24 hours.

Moonraker is unique in the James Bond canon in being set
entirely within the UK. James Bond investigates a Bridge cheating
scandal at M's exclusive private club, and is then called on to
provide security for the cheater; a Richard-Branson like
industrialist hero who turns out to be a late-running Nazi who
isn't test-firing a rocket but intends to fire it straight
into London. James Bond saves the day.

Bond shares with the other two 00-agents a secretary, Loelia Ponsonby,
who assists the agents when they're in the UK and not on overseas
assignment. After a dangerous overseas assignment, an agent typically
has two weeks holiday to recover.

The villain, Hugo Drax, is the first of the Bond villains to cheat
at Cards. Auric Goldfinger cheats at Canasta and in the movie
Octopussy Kamal Khan cheats at Backgammon. Cheating at games is
a sure sign that a Bond villain is a rotter.

By the time this got made into a movie the rocket scenario had dated
considerably and Roger Moore's Moonraker was a laser-beam Space Shuttle
Space Opera, totally different from the 1950s book. There is the
similarity that Bond and the girl are left for hours below the
rocket and are expected to perish when the rocket/space shuttle
launches. The movie before it, The Spy Who Loved Me, is also
totally different from its Ian Fleming namesake.

The book is so different from the movie that a film tie-in novel,
"James Bond and Moonraker" was released, written by the film's
scriptwriter Christopher Wood.

There's a nice twist at the end of the book where Bond, warming to
the girl who has helped him on the assignment, expects to be taking
her for two weeks R&R in France, but discovers she's engaged and
can't join him.

A final comment on the edition I read - it's a third-hand or
fourth-hand book with browning pages and black texta crosses over
the cover and the first few pages, but it's still a usable book and
still quite readable. A credit for a codex that's almost sixty years old.
I'll probably replace it when I see a newer, cleaner edition
cheaply in a second hand sale, but for now it functions as my copy of
Moonraker.

                                             28th March 2020

October 2020: As hinted in the last paragraph, I have replaced my
Moonraker edition. I got a 10-book-box Silver Penguin Classics of many
of the James Bond books including Moonraker and I have disposed of the
Pan Edition.

First reading of the Silver Penguin Modern Classics Edition:
                                             27th October 2023

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
