PLEASE GAMBLE IRRESPONSIBLY by Titus O'Reily

2019. Penguin Michael Joseph. Paperback.

This is the second Titus O'Reily book I've read (he's written four).
There was a lot of duplication early with the Thoroughly Unhelpful
History of Australian Sport in the early colonial history of
horseracing; but once I got over that hump the material was fresh and
a valuable and humorous history of betting.

There's a long history of John Wren and I was screaming at Titus "you
know he's the guy that Power Without Glory is all about" and I was
even going to email him this information (there's nothing in the
footnotes about Frank Hardy) when all of a sudden at the end of the
chapter Power Without Glory is appropriately mentioned. Just as well I
didn't send Titus that email!

Some of the stories in the book are so good that I put an index at the
start of the book into my favourite pages. Turkish Airmen in World War
1 refused to bomb "devout" Australians looking at the sky and ground;
they weren't praying they were playing two-up! So much of the 1940s
phone lines were tied up by people calling SP Bookies that Prime
Minister John Curtain couldn't phone a State Premier as the Japanese
threatened; Titus says "Imagine if the Japanese had successfully
invaded because a bunch of people were trying to get a bet on. Nothing
could be more Australian". And a wonderful Helpful Gambling Tip: "When
betting on the greyhounds, take a minute to consider where your life
went wrong, and then try to fix it".

This book was written just after the craze of Tom Waterhouse being in
every advertisement on TV and the NRL's footy panel team while he was
growing his business. Titus has excellent coverage of the problems
State governments have had with sports betting companies: They don't
get enough money from the Federal Government; and Federal/State
relations are such that the States compete for gambling companies to
set up there. The Northern Territory was often the wild west for
Internet gambling companies; but Tasmania and other states have
competed for their slice of the action.

Another fantastic book from Titus O'Reily. His other two books are "A
Sporting Chance" (how stars come back from their scandals) and Cheat.
I'll probably read them in that order, I suspect Sporting Chance will
be read this year and Cheat in the first quarter of 2026.

                                        25th September 2025.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
