PRINCIPLES OF SAN DESIGN by Josh Judd

2005. Infinity Publishing/Brocade Networks. Paperback.

I'm searching for jobs more seriously than usual so I'm reading some
technical books and manuals. All of the IT books I've reviewed here so
far are "IT Business" books about the influence of IT and not how to
actually use software or headware; but this is a completely technical
book, about Storage Area Networks and how to set them up and design
them; especially using Routers and Switches and hardware from Brocade;
who have since been acquired by Broadcom.

At the time of this book's writing, Fibre Channel was all the rage for
the connectivity; but TCP/IP has caught up with higher speeds and now
Fibre Channel seems all but dead; so the exhortations in this book to
always use Fibre Channel and never use TCP/IP look very dated. Data
rates have obviously increased substantially since this book's
publication of 2005.

I started reading this book for a possible job contract for NSW Police
in Parramatta; but nothing came of it, in fact I couldn't get an
interview because the cops were insistent on recent knowledge of IBM
Tivoli Storage Manager (which has been re-named several times but the
old-timers will still call it Tivoli). They made the JD sound like Red
Hat Linux Systems Administration, but it was the SAN stuff they
wanted.

So back to the Josh Judd book itself. I've read half of it, and I
continuted reading it after any need for the police job disappeared;
because I was enjoying it and it was well written with good
diagrams. I do enjoy a good tech book. I'm tempted to abandon it and
shift over to more useful IT Tech job-hunting books, but this book
deserves an entry in booksiveread even if I only read 124/308
pages. Perhaps other SAN-needed jobs will crop up; perhaps I'll still
read a chapter here or there and eventually finish the book (if I do
I'll change this review). One of the best things about this book is it
is book-novel sized and easy to read on trains.

                                                     16 October 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
