PUCKOON by Spike Millian

1963 (1975). Penguin. Paperback.

A discussion of the cover picture is needed right from the start.
A man is sitting on a stool listening to an old stereo with a listening
horn (His Masters Voice style); the horn says "Buy Puckoon and stop
Penguins becoming extinct folks!". A voice ballon at the top of the
drawing has the man saying "'Thinks' He's Right. I MUST buy PUCKOON".

The man's voice balloon has been shaped to avoid a floral design on a
column and a green curtain says "Note Respectful 'Thinks' avoiding
Prince of Wales Feathers".

This cartoon (by Spike Milligan himself) confused me for years and for
a long time I thought that Penguin animals must be featured in the
story. Then I thought it was along the lines of National Lampoon
Magazine's famous cover "If you don't buy this magazine, we'll kill
this dog" with a cute dog photographed with a gun held to its head.
Now I believe the cartoon is Milligan's joke that if Puckoon doesn't
sell well, Penguin publishing will go under.

It looks like it did sell well, the copyright page says my copy is one
of the thirteenth printing. Once you realise the cover image has
nothing much to do with the novel (and this took me years) you'll do
fine with the story.

Puckoon is an absurdist romp in an Irish town divided by the newly
established border between Northern Ireland and Ireland. I managed to
read it in a single night; I'm always proud of myself for reading
books in effectively a single sitting. The books I've been able to
read in a single sitting (and any special reasons) are:

1) A Room with a View (flight from Singapore to Sydney with nothing much
to do; in the old days when you didn't get good in-flight
entertainment on your own monitor)

2) The Quiet American (tootache overnight living in Auburn)

3) The Great Gatsby (girlfriend had just left me)

4) Puckoon (too many late nights and couldn't sleep, plus it was a
page turning easy read after Ulysses)

My copy of Puckoon belongs to my brother Grahame and I'll return it to
him next time I see him. Milligan wrote a second novel, The Looney,
and I'll read it (probably not in one sitting) as an easy-read novel
sometime in the next few months. Puckoon was my easy-read novel after
finishing The Odyssey.

I've never appreciated Spike Milligan as much as I should. I went to a
live show of his at Newcastle's Civic Theatre when I was only 10 or 11
and I didn't understand his adult jokes. Everyone else at the show was
having the time of their lives and I was just a bit too young for
it. A few of my friends are huge Goon Show fans and again I enjoy
something less absurd; in my case the wonderfully scripted Tony
Hancock shows.

Although the story is too absurd for my liking, each page of Puckoon
can be scoured for wonderful comic writing and similes. This is the
best comic novel since P.G. Wodehouse.

                                       20th March 2023.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
