RISE OF THE EXTREME RIGHT by Lydia Khalil

2022. Penguin Books. Paperback.

This is an Australian "Penguin Special" from the Lowy Institute.
The Lowy Institute are probably my favourite of the slightly left
Think-Tanks, they've produced some good research on modern China.

I've read one other of the Australian Penguin Specials, The Deserted
Newsroom by Gideon Haigh about the decline of traditional media
especially Print Media.

This book is excellently written and the endnoting is even
better. While the endnotes take up the second half of the book, each
endnote is separated by a blank line which so many book don't use; it
works fantastically here.

Khalil says a few times during the book that its function is to be a
primer on the subject of the Extreme Right, worldwide, and she
succeeds in that goal. One interesting idea is that just as
Afghanistan proved a magnet for overseas Islamic fighters, so too has
the Russia-Ukraine conflict proved a magnet for the far right, no
matter if they've travelled to fight for either the Russians or the
Ukrainians!

The role of the Internet in radicalisation is covered well, though
even more could be said on this subject. The Asian governments of
Burma and India are shown to be right-wing, and the activist Aung San
Suu Kyi goes from the darling of the progressive set to untouchable.

Khalil seems to throw around the label of "far-right" and "extreme
right" too easily without understanding their grievances. The concept
of The Great Replacement, which I'd heard about but never looked into,
is well covered.

Ironically the far right movements feel the need to learn from each
other and globalise, even though they're nationalistic in nature. A
Neo-Nazi Scandinavian says "We live in an increasingly global world in
which national borders are becoming less and less important. This is
not somehing we want; on the contrary, it is part os something we
fight against. However, we must also adapt to the prevailing reality."

This book belongs with Anne Applebaum's Twilight of Democracy and some
other reading I'll be doing on QAnon. It's a great introduction to a
confronting subject.

Thanks to reading multiple books at a time, I've finished and
reviewed two books on the same day here at github stucooper
booksiveread. I read the last third of Evelyn Waugh's Decline and Fall
before midday including some 2am sleepless reading, and the second
half of Khalid's Rise of the Extreme Right in the afternoon.

                                            8th March 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
