TECH MONOPOLIES by Jon Barnes

A short rant about addictive design.

2019. JonBarnes. Paperback.

This is a short self-published book that I read in a single flight from
Launceston to Sydney on Saturday 25th January. I'm always proud of
being able to read a book in a single sitting or overnight. In the
days before choose-your-own TV entertainment on international flights
I would read entire books on a Sydney to Singapore flight. Books that
I have read this way are:

E.M. Forster      A Room with a View (Singapore to Sydney flight)
Grahame Greene    The Quiet American (overnight, toothache)
F.Scott Fitzgerad The Great Gatsby   (overnight, lovesick)
Jon Barnes        Tech Monopolies    (Launceston to Sydney flight)

Tech Monopolies covers the same ground as a breakthrough documentary I
saw on someone's Netflix a few years ago. The main culprit was people
using ideas from B.J. Fogg and Stanford's Persuasive Technology Lab.
The Netflix Documentary starred the guy who never aged who plays poker
against Justin Timberlake in the sci-fi movie "In Time".. let me look
him up.. Vincent Kartheiser. The name of that Netflix special (again
looked up) was The Social Dilemma.

Tech Monopolies joins "You are not a Gadget" and "The Shallows" in the
pantheon of warnings about modern connected life. It mentions a few
other classic books which I should try to read soon. Important books
in the bibliography, some of which I already own, are:

Hooked: How to build Addictive Products by Nir Eyal
Free Will by Sam Harris
Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Kahneman
Throwing Rocks at the Google Bus by Douglas Rushkoff

It feels like that time in my reading cycle to read some non-fiction
IT policy books and Rocks at the Google Bus should be my next
important read.

While Tech Monopolies is self-published using Flux Publishing it has
the worst off-kilter contents page I've ever seen. I'll go through and
correct it by hand but the book really needed more quality control
than what I experienced here.

                                            27th January 2025.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
