THE GREAT GATSBY by F Scott Fitzgerald

1926. Penguin. Paperback. Film Tie-in Edition (Robert Redford/Mia Farrow)

The Great Gatsby is the best romance book ever written for men.
Jay Gatsby, a wealthy man who has lived the American Dream of
reinventing himself on his own terms, has stayed true to his
dream of recapturing his great love of five years earlier.

Years ago in my High School English (between Years 11 and 12)
each student in my class was given the Summer Holiday task of reading
a novel of their choice and writing a report on it. The Great Gatsby
was my choice and my review was marked favourably. It's a book I've
read three or four times over the years and I remember many of the
great descriptions and phrases from the book, word for word. This book
has stayed with me more than any other book I've read.

I used to jump into the book halfway through Chapter 3 when Gatsby
finally appears, but in my latest reading I was careful to slowly read
and understand the first two chapters. Once those were out of the way
the rest of the book, much more familiar to me, went past very quickly
and pleasurably. I read it in just about a single sitting, which I'm
always proud of; I've read two other books in single sittings, The
Quiet American (when I was kept awake overnight by toothache) and A
Room With a View, when I was on a long Aeroplane flight.

The description of Gatsby's first smile is so wonderful that
it's the page I turn to the most.

    He smiled understandingly - much more than under-
  standingly. It was one of those rare smiles with a quality
  of eternal reassurance in it, that you may come across
  four or five times in life. It faced - or seemed to face -
  the whole eternal world for an instant, and then con-
  centrated on you with an irresistible prejudice in your
  favour. It understood you just so far as you wanted to
  be understood, believed in you as you would like to
  believe in yourself, and assured you that it had precisely
  the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to
  convey. Precisely at that point it vanished - and I was
  looking at an elegant young rough-neck, a year or two
  over thirty, whose elaborate formatlity of speech just
  missed being absurd. Some time before he introduced
  himself I'd got a strong impression that he was picking
  his words with care.

As a Great American Classic, The Great Gatsby is at risk of scholarly
editions with copious footnotes and First Versions but the
version we all read is good enough. I read an Annotated Lolita many
years ago and all of the notes revealing Nabokov's sources and tricks
spoiled the book for me to some degree. I think The Great Gatsby
deserves its mystery and I'm more than happy to keep reading it in a
standard edition. For example the list of 1920s figures who were
guests at Gatsby's parties at the start of Chapter IV, real or
imagined, is of little interest to me and doesn't need footnoting.
If Nick Carraway doesn't understand the nefarious ways Gatsby makes
his money, neither do I. I do wish I understood a little more about the
West/East issues; it seems that the Old Money East is corrupted by
film-making (the 1920s are probably pre-Hollywood) and the Westerners
are more down-to-earth.

The Great Gatsby has had two famous film versions, the 1970s one stars
Robert Redford and Mia Farrow. Woody Allen saw it many times and fell
in love with Mia Farrow as a result. The 2013 Baz Luhrmann film is
fantastically cast with Leonardo DiCaprio, Tobey Maguire and Carey
Mulligan and like most Baz Luhrmann films is exuberant and visually
stunning. I was impatient for the movie to be released, and joked on
Facebook at the time that the upcoming movie was so close and yet so
far, like a Green light across the bay.

I said at the outset that the Great Gatsby was the greatest romance
novel written for men. It's this man's fantasy to be dedicated to his
first true love, to be wealthy, to be famous for the parties he gives,
to be involved in shady pursuits and to be able to wave off policeman
trying to issue him speeding tickets. A shame about the early death,
but what a romantic death, an accidental martyr taking the fall for
his lover's driving immediately after his hopes and dreams have all
flamed out.

                                       31st March 2020

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
