THE DISMISSAL by Paul Kelly and Troy Bramston

2015. Penguin/Viking. Hardback.

My introduction to the 1975 Dismissal came in a two-panel Larry
Pickering cartoon I saw at about age eight (1979). The dialog between
Whitlam and Kerr runs as follows:

WHITLAM: Now that I'm Prime Minister, John, I'm going to make you
Governor-General!
KERR: Great, you're sacked!

There was of course a two year period between those two events but I
giggle at the thought of them happening consecutively as they do in
the cartoon.

Paul Kelly is the authorative voice on the 1975 Dismissal of the
Whitlam Government and this is his third book on the subject.
I had the earlier two, I remember the second one had the exciting
words DRAMATIC NEW ACCOUNT on either the front or back cover.
The first was "The Unmaking of Gough" which I had in an edition called
"The Dismissal" and with a photo from the ABCTV version of John
Meillon as Sir John Kerr. The second was called November 1975 (Dramatic
New Account!). This third book is The Dismissal, In the Queen's Name,
but I'll ignore the second clause and just refer to it as The
Dismissal and consider that it supercedes the second Paul Kelly book.

This latest book, co-written with Troy Bramston, one of my favourite
political writers in The Australian, should hopefully be the last word
on the subject. I've long since hoicked the earlier two books and
Matters for Judgement and The Truth of the Matter. I'm happy to go
through life with just this latest book and also to have finally it.

My favourite part of many books are the final pages, amd the final
chapters and Epilogue of The Dismissal: In the Queen's Name don't
disappoint. The CIA conspiracy is given the putdown it deserves; a
far-fetched 2+2=5 connection perpetuated by journalist Brian Toohey
and pot stirrer John Pilger. Kelly and Bramston say that Fraser's
government wasn't constrained by the way they won power, and Fraser
wasn't a change-everything reformer in the first place. The
post-dismissal friendship of Fraser and Whitlam is nicely covered.

Some of the prime sources of this book are Whitlam and Kerr's own
books, "The Truth of the Matter" and "Matters for
Judgement". Amazingly Kerr had written a second book on the subject,
"The Triumph of the Constitution" which he was unable to get
published.

It's coming up to the 50th anniversary of The Dismissal this year
(November 11th of course) but I doubt there will be much new
information and much to add to this definitive treatment.
There are some hidden-away letters from Sir John Kerr to the Queen
that the Palace and Australia House haven't released, that Kerr
himself had hoped would see the light of day by now. Political and
constitutional writer Anne Twomey tried to get access to them but had
little luck.

                                            9th March 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
