THE MOON AND SIXPENCE BY W Somerset Maugham

(1919) 1999. Vintage Books. Paperback.

This is one of the most famous novels about visual art and is based
on the life of French artist Paul Gaugin. I read it in two weeks,
either side of visiting the Gaugin exhibition in Canberra at the
Australian National Gallery.

A small item of my favourite trivia. W. Somerset Maugham had the same
lifespan as a much greater Briton, Winston Churchill. If you're at a
trivia night with a bonus who am I? question and the first clues are
that I was born in 1874 and I died in 1965 you have to wait for one
more clue before you can shout "Churchill!" or, less commonly,
"Somerset Maugham!"

Maugham is more famous as a short story writer, the only other novels
besides this that I've heard of are "Of Human Bondage". Another work
of his, also published in Vintage, is "The Razor's Edge" which I've
seen used as the title of a poker book, "The Raiser's Edge".

Charles Strickland is a complete cad. A seemingly settled English
stockbroker, he abandons his wife and two childen and goes to live in
France. He hasn't run off with a woman, and he doesn't seem obviously
dissatisfied with his family, he has just run off to be an artist,
after some completely unpromising art classes in England. Indeed his
wife seems the more artistic, giving soirees and parties for writers
and men of letters.

Strickland breaks up a married couple in France, driving the wife to
suicide. The husband has an eye for art but has no artistic
inspiration himself. After more adventures in France, Strickland goes
to Tahiti where he finds happiness and a native wife but dies of
leprosy.

I don't have any idea why this book is called The Moon and Sixpence,
perhaps a sixpence is round like the moon but I'll check the meaning
of the title on Wikipedia shortly. The book was a very satisfying read
and the 215 pages gave you a full 215 pages because the chapter breaks
were just three lines high and each chapter flowed on from the
previous one with no extra blank space at the bottom of pages. This
layout made the book like reading a vertical scroll, only you didn't
have to twist rolling pins left and right you can still flip the
pages.

                                            1st October 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
