THE UNCOMMON READER by Alan Bennett

(2006) 2008. Faber and Faber. Paperback.

This is a small 120-page comic novel whose size suggests that it can
be read in a day or even a single sitting. I started it late at night
and it was good enough that I was able to read it in a single sitting,
overcoming a small wave of tiredness exactly half-way through and
reading through to the enjoyable conclusion.

This is also the first book from Faber and Faber that I've read from
start to finish. For some reason I've always had trouble with this
publisher and don't have many books from them. I've got Lord of the
Flies which I really must get through sometime and a Woody Allen three
film scripts book. Perhaps I read a Kinky Friedman entertaining
Jazz/Crime book in Faber once, but Faber have always been a difficult
publisher for me. I believe they were T.S.Eliot's publisher.

What is the Queen took up reading late in her life and became so
enthusiastic about it that she began to neglect her public duties to
spend more and more of her time indulging this solitary pursuit?
Bennett develops this single idea into an enjoyable fantasy. The Queen
regrets not interrogating all the authors she has bestowed awards on
during her long life of public service, and finds meeting living
authors to be mostly a bore, though she gets on very well with
Canada's Alice Munro.

Palace employees do their best to frustrate Queen Elizabeth's new
hobby, but she has a lot of power and is able to indulge herself to
the point where she's taking notes in books and beginning to find her
voice as a writer. With not enough time to read, write and perform her
Royal duties, the book ends with an 80th birthday abdication by Her
Majesty, to give her time to work writing literature.

This is a book that celebrates reading and the effect it has on
people. It's an enjoyable fantasy that celebrates the intelligence of
reading and the changes that reading can bring to people. (the Queen's
staple question to strangers "Have you travelled far today?" is soon
replaced by "What have you been reading lately?"). I expected Alan
Bennett to know and mention the Queen Mother's love of P.G Wodehouse
and I was expecting Kingsley Amis to rate a mention, but apart from
these omissions The Uncommon Reader is an excellent single-session
read.

                                             21st February 2024

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread


