THE BIGGEST GAME IN TOWN by A. Alvarez

1983. Flamingo. Paperback.

Al Alvarez looks to be the first of that line of literary British
authors attracted to poker. He was followed by Anthony Holden ('Big
Deal', 'Bigger Deal') who played in home games with Martin Amis. Amis
grumbled that "his name is practically Hold'em".

This book is a classic study of Binion's Horseshoe Casino, the side
game players and the 1981 World Series of Poker; with 76 entrants and
Stu Ungar the repeat winner. I knew a lot of this history through
other poker reading, so the main interest was in lesser figures and
the description of Vegas itself; an unforgiving desert environment so
hot that the only thing to do during the day was to go to the
air-conditioned casinos. Alvarez spends his time in the gritty gulch
casinos, not the glittering strip casinos.

This book is a worthy follow up to the 1970s Las Vegas classic, "Fear
and Loathing in Las Vegas". I've owned a few other Las Vegas books
over the years but I'm in no rush to read anything more about the
city.

The Biggest Game in Town was an easy read (to someone as interested in
the subject as I am) and a book I expect to re-read in a year's time.

I've also got an articles collection of Alvarez's, "Risky Business"
which if I remember correctly had a long profile on pianist Alfred
Brendel. It looks like Al and I share a lot of interests.

The copyright page mentions that "the contents of this book
appeared, in a slightly different form, in the New Yorker"!
I wonder if they gave it a whole issue, like the famous Hershey
Hiroshima issue? I've got (but am yet to read) Hiroshima, so this
is my first book-length New Yorker read.

                                       15th February 2023

May 2023: An internet search shows that Alvarez's writing was spread
over two separate New Yorker issues, possibly consecutive but I'm not
sure of that. The second part was in the 14th March 1983 issue.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
