THE ANTISOCIAL NETWORK by Ben Mezrich

2021. Harper Collins. Paperback. 288 pages.

Ben Mezrich comptes with Michael Lewis in the field of adventurous
financial stories, many of which get made into movies. Mezrich wrote
the books behind 21 and The Social Network but hasn't quite nailed
coming up with an excellent movie-friendly title for his books
(the book of 21 is "Bringing down the house" and the book of The Social
Network, about the early days of Facebook, is "The Accidental Billionaires").

The Antisocial Network again fails to grab as a movie title; and has been
filmed as Dumb Money. I'm seeing it tonight, the very day that I've finished
the book. From the trailer, it looks like an entertaining finance
story starring mostly working-class frat boys. As is my habit, I'll
add an extra paragraph or two about what the film was like and include
it in this review.

The Antisocial Network covers a highly entertaining Covid-era-lockdown
story of litte-man investors getting lucky against hedge funds and the
big-end-of-town, in a stock called GME, GameStop, a chain of video
game selling shops in shopping centres that looked destined to die as
the internet and digital innovation threatened the future of "Bricks
and Mortar" gaming stores. The small investors band together on the
Reddit forums, in a sub-reddit called "WallStreetBets" (WSB), and
collectively win billions from a hedge fund that had gambled big that
the company would go bust and they could make millions on options that
GameStop would do just that.

Each chapter in the Antisocial Network (I think of this book title as
ASN.1) focusses on one of the personalities in the mix of GameStop. A
mental-health care nurse doesn't add much to the story but shows the
human side of the small investors using RobinHood; a commission-free
trading app that makes its money by selling the trading data to the
big HFTs such as Susquehanna and Citadel.

The final chapters of the book covering congressional hearings into
the affair are the best, as the principal characters no longer have a
chapter to themselves but come together in an enquiry and
investigation into just what went on in the whole affair.

                                             2nd November 2023

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
