THE MAN WHO SAVED BRITAIN by Simon Winder

2006. Picador. Hardback.

Every now and again, perhaps every fifty books, I read a book by
somenoe I'm politically and physcologically very different to. I
normally appreciate these books and being challenged by their
arguments, especially if the writing is entertaining, well argued and
well researched. The Man Who Saved Britain is "A person journey into
the disturbing world of James Bond" and that subheading on the cover
warns us that this isn't going to be a fanboy's uncritical
appreciation of the James Bond books and movies.

The earlier challenging book I read and valued greatly was a
reassessment of Churchill: Churchill: The End of Glory by John
Charmley. I should re-read that soon and also read the sequel,
Churchill's Grand Alliance.

Back to Simon Winder and James Bond. He doesn't find James Bond films
sexy, as a boy, an adult or at any stage of his life; whereas for most
of the teenage audiences they are amazingly tittilating and
memorable. He complains about the limited locations of the James Bond
books, completely missing the point that Ian Fleming only wrote about
countries that he had himself visited. So there's no Australia in the
James Bond corpus simply because Fleming had never gone there.

Winder makes an excellent point that the James Bond books entertain
the British in the 1950s with stories of luxury and foreign locations;
two things out of the reach of the British still recovering from the
Second World War and rationing. The British empire is slipping away
and the worlds of Politics and 007 collide when at the height of the
Suez Crisis an exhausted Anthony Eden visited Fleming's house
Goldeneye in Jamaica; sadly while Fleming was abroad. Living closeby
was another English man of letters, Noel Coward.

Simon Winder hates Conservatives, hates the British Empire and hates
James Bond for propping up the fantasies of generations of Englishman
slow to adjust to Britain's newly diminished role in the world. He
seems to be expurgating his previous love of the movies; and when he
was young the movies he saw were probably the five worst of the canon:
Diamonds are Forever, Live and Let Die, The Man with the Golden Gun,
the Spy who Loved me and Moonraker. Winder had spent a lot of time
going to worthy films at the National Film Theatre; so switching off
his brain and enjoying James Bond films for the escapism that they are
now seems beyond him. How sad.

                                                     14 September 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
