THINGS THAT CAN AND CANNOT BE SAID by John Cusack and Arundhati Roy

Essays and conversations.

2016. Penguin. Paperback.

This weekend I had a watch footy trip in Canberra with my brother
Grahame. The way we organise these trips is that I get a train to
Tuggerah and he drives me to Canberra from there, avoiding yucky
Sydney driving and having to get to Flemington. I had a larger book to
read (Throwing rocks at the Google Bus) but at the last minute I
grabbed this slim Penguin Special from my bookcase.

The book was an interesting and challenging look at some important
issues from a leftwing perspective. Edward Snowden is a refugee in
Russia, while Julian Assange is holed up in the Ecuadorian Embassy in
London. Snowden's crime was to reveal to US residents the surveillance
they were under from their own government. The classic exposer of
this, from the early 1970s, was Daniel Ellsberg who leaked The
Pentagon Papers.

Actor John Cusack and author Arundhati Roy bring Ellsberg and Snowden
together, in Russia, and record some of their conversation. This is
the last part of the book; the earlier parts are essays by Cusack and
Roy about patriotism, love of country and the government and the
public they are meant to serve being two very, very separate groups.
Are activist groups funded by corporations constrained in their
politics?

The book is slim, even slimmer than a previous Penguin special I've
read, "Political Correctness gone mad?". Annoyingly, the book seems to
end mid-sentence just as Ellsberg and Snowden's conversation is
getting really interesting. There's some good background from Ellsberg
about the real-life figures parodied in the movie Doctor Strangelove
(which Snowden has never seen) and the truth about the "missile gap"
between the US and the Soviets turns out to be 120 to 4 in favour of
the US; not 120 to 1,000 against as they were pretending.

It's a shame that only 10 of the 110 pages record the meeting between
Ellsberg and Snowden; the book gets us interested and then lets us
down at the end, and as I said before it ends abruptly. A good read,
and a necessary read, but in the end a frustrating finish.

I'm not sure whether I'll keep this book; I might give it a single
re-read later but I've absorbed the main ideas and the book has served
its purpose and might not deserve a spot in my permanent collection.

                                             27 April 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread