THROWING ROCKS AT THE GOOGLE BUS by Douglas Rushkoff

How Growth became the enemy of prosperity

2016. Portfolio/Penguin. Paperback.

This is a book that I've wanted to read for ages, in many of my other
IT book reviews I've mused "hey I must read Throwing Rocks at the
Google Bus next". I've finally done it, and the book was a sensational
read.

The book begins with an explanation on why unlimited growth is
unsustainable. Some of the obvious arguments I've sensed myself for a
long time; especially the parts that a company should be allowed to
reach the right size and not need to keep increasing its profits every
year. My bank when I grew up was the Newcastle Permanent Building
Society; and I'd tell anyone who'd listen that if they had a $10
million profit two years ago and just a $7 million profit last year
that doesn't mean that last year was terrible, hey they still made a
$7 million profit! Maybe they've opened more branches and they're
employing more people, maybe they had to forgive more bad loans than
usual, why does a company have to grow and grow and grow??

At about the same time of my life, I was so excited by reading Dame
Edna Everage's "My Gorgeous Life" that I wished I could buy thousands
of copies and drop them in people's letterboxes. I feel the same way
about Google Bus; I wish by some dispensation that many people would
read this book and be as affected by it as I am. I saw two more copies
(for $5, my one cost me just $2) at Lifeline Hornsby and I should've
snapped them up and passed them to friends, maybe I'll make another
trip and offer them to IT-savvy folk at this coming Friday's Perl
meetup.

Since so much of modern life is digital and can be re-programmed, how
about smart hackers re-program the economic system? Rushkoff's ideal
system was the Middle Ages bazaar; before the Renaissance where kings
and lords reasserted their power through control of currency and
forcing businesses to accept interest-bearing loans.

Impressively, Rushkoff knocks off the evils of High Frequency Trading
in just six pages, whereas Michael Lewis in Flash Boys (2014) took an
entire book. An even better section of the book (and new information
for me) was an explanation of Venture Capital and the pressure that
idealistic company founders are put under to sell off their companies
at insanely overpriced amounts.

Rushkoff mentions one of my favourite visionaries, Jaron Lanier, a few
times. A major theme of Lanier's second book, Who Owns the Future, is
that Internet users should be compensated for the value of their data
through a micropayments system. As I was reading the book it seemed
like a fantastic idea but after finishing the book I despaired "great
idea, but this will never happen". I got similar feelings reading
Google Bus - "yes great points, you've convinced me, but these changes
will never be made". The final chapter, Distributed, suggests that
change is happening and we live in a hybrid society and every
improvement counts. So just at the moment I don't feel the same
despair as I did after Who Owns the Future? (which I should re-read),
but I'll see if I still feel the same way in a few months. I doubt
I'll ever support or appreciate the Burning Man festival.

This looks like a book that I'll want to re-read yearly, just to
remember the ideas (and underline key points even more than I've done
on my first reading, and I underlined a fair bit of it).

                                     17th May 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
