UNDER ORDERS by Dick Francis

2006. Penguin/Michael Joseph. Hardback.

This was a loaner book from Lyndel, who never needs to lends me books
but last time I was at her house we were talking about horseracing and
Internet gambling and she said that she had a fiction work all about
both and lent me this book. Knowing that Dick Francis was an
accomplished writer of thrillers, most involving horseracing, I was
pleased to accept the loan and this week I read it in a few happy
days.

The story starts with three deaths at a steeple-chase "jumps" meeting
in Cheltenham. An old man has a heart attack, a horse dies from a
failed jump, and a winning jockey ends up dead with several bullets
in his chest.

I'm a terrible whodunnit solver and at first I thought that all of the
three deaths would be related, but it was just the jockey's death that
sets off the action. The jockey was suspected of race fixing, and the
winning trainer dies the following day, seemingly a suicide. The
cast of involved people include the owners of a hot new betting
exchange website, make-awager.com, obviously modelled on Betfair,
which I once read a detailed book on by an English County Cricket
captain, Iain Fletcher. I'm very old fashioned with my betting and I
prefer the traditional battle of punter versus bookie, and I never
gamble over the Internet and I always use cash. With the new betting
exchanges, punters are now able to back or lay their selections;
taking on bets from other punters and in that way acting as small-time
bookmakers themselves. When you lay a horse, you're betting on that
horse to lose. But how can you be sure that the anonymous party taking
you on at the other side of the website isn't the website themselves?

"Under Orders" is a real page turner and it was very easy to read at
least 50 of the book's 345 pages in a sitting; at about the rate of a
page per minute. The hero, Sid Halley, ex-jockey now turned one-armed
detective after a racing mishap ended his career, is a memorable
character and Francis mentions his disability at just the right
frequency.

The book is perhaps a little dumbed-down for non-racing readers;
surely everyone knows how much a monkey is? Haven't we all watched at
least one episode of Minder?? Still I learned a lot from this
rollicking book and I hope that Lyndel might have a few other Dick
Francis's to lend my way.

                                           19th March 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
