A THOROUGHLY UNHELPFUL HISTORY OF AUSTRALIAN SPORT by Titus O'Reily

2017. Penguin Random House. Paperback.

Titus O'Reily is my favourite stand-up comedian and works in the
most rarefied of genres; AFL Comedy. I followed his podcast with
Sergio Paradise for a few years; it was the only podcast I would
listen to regularly. It was called "Titus and Sergio's Variety Hour"
and was very entertaining weekly listening. I have two large t-shirts
with the logo and the words Titus and Sergio's Variety Hour Since 1809
written on it.

Back to the book. I had my copy of this book
(Titus's first) signed by him at his yearly AFL comedy show in Sydney.

The inscription reads:
To Stuart, Thanks for all your support, Titus O'Reily.

The book is very entertaining but very hard to read linearly; it's
well organised in sporting sections and I read the AFL and cricket
sections and about 70% of the book before a break and before I
realised I had to read it start to finish linearly. It would almost
have been easier reading it Linear-B, which is a joke I was thinking
about including in this review for the few days it took me to read the
book start to finish.

Titus has now written three more books; all are about the same length
and are in the field of comedy/sport. His books are

2017. A thoroughly unhelpful history of Australian Sport

2018. A Sporting Chance. Australian Sporting scandals and the path to
redemption.

2019. Please Gamble Irresponsibly. The rise, fall and rise of sports
gambling in Australia.

2020. Cheat. The not-so subtle art of conning your way to sporting
glory.

Just as I finally read the history of Australian sport linearly, I'll
read the next three books in order; whenever I need a hugely
entertaining read as a break from more serious non-fiction
reading. These books are especially good to read during the AFL
season.

Sport is Australia's culture, and Titus O'Reily celebrates it
magnificently.

                                      28th March 2023.

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
