WHISTLEBLOWER JUSTICE AT UBER by Susan Fowler

2020. Penguin/Viking. Hardback.

I bought this book for a $10 discount at Abbeys and read it within
two days of purchase. It's very well written, from a self-educated and
determined IT Tech specialist who experienced sexual harrassment and
discrimination at College and finally and most famously at Uber.

I'm sure there are dozens of books called "Whistleblower" so I've
called this one "Whistleblower: Justice at Uber". The full subtitle,
way too long for a book review, is "Whistleblower: My Journey to
Silicon Valley and fight for Justice at Uber".

The copyright page was interesting, Penguin have now added a "we
support copyright" statement that reminds me of "Don't steal movies"
clips added to the start of legitimate DVDs. Here is the Penguin
statement:

  Penguin supports copyright. Copyright supports creativity,
  encourages diverse voices, promotes free speech, and creates a
  vibrant culture. Thank you for buying an authorised edition of this
  book and for complying with copyright laws by not reproducing,
  scanning, or distributing any part of it in any form without
  permission. You are supporting writers and allowing Penguin to
  continue to publish books for every reader.

Happy to help, Penguin, although your employees shouldn't whinge about
publishing Jordan Peterson's books. That encourages diverse voices,
promotes free speech and creates a vibrant culture as well.

Susan Fowler had to overcome many obstacles to get to Silicon
Valley. One of seven children to poor Christian preachers, she was
home-schooled then no-schooled and faced a lot of battles and catch-up
work to get into colleges and universities. Originally interested in
the Violin, then Philosophy, then Physics, she was unsupported by a
Uni in Pennsylvania and was left carrying the can when the Uni
wouldn't support a depressive suicidal co-student and made it her
problem instead.

Forced out of physics, Fowler made it into the IT world of San
Francisco. Her first two jobs didn't work out and she wanted to be
sure that her third job, for a hot startup called Uber, lasted longer
than her first two jobs which both lasted about six months.

Fowler knew her Cloud computing and working in Site Reliability
Engineering (SRE) developed company-wide standards for the field of
Microservices. This was such a success that she produced the O'Reilly
book on the subject, "Production-Ready Microservices", in December
2016.

But the culture at Uber and the managers harassed her. Taking a
complaint about a sleazy manager to HR, she was told nothing would be
done because the manager was a star performer with great performance
reviews, and this was the first time any kind of incident had been
reported about him. He'd get a stern talking to and Uber were
confident this would be a one-off. Later Fowler discovers that a few
other women had complained about the same manager, both before and
after her complaint, and they were each told the same thing.

Women were continually disrespected at Uber. At orientation week,
several women were made to return to their seats in a "who is the most
interesting person at your table" segment. When leather jackets were
ordered for Uber's SRE engineers, the six women of the 108 engineers
were told they wouldn't be getting jackets because the men's jackets
were purchased at volume discount, which the women couldn't get
because there were only six of them, so the women's jackets were way
more expensive than the men's jackets so only the men would be getting
jackets. After a lot of agitation, the women got jackets too, but by
this time Fowler was so disgusted with the whole process that she
threw her jacket in the bin. Women were overlooked and patronised at
every opportunity, and general bullying was rife.

Uber attempt to reward managers for the diversity of their teams, but
the result is that managers refuse transfer requests from their women
employees because that would lower their own diversity score. A
Performance Review of Fowler's is retrospectively downgraded to
prevent her transferring to a different team, which affects her
attendance at some University courses.

Once finally out of Uber, Fowler publishes a famous blog post of her
time there, which is included as an appendix to this book. For her
troubles Uber puts private investigators on her and talks to all of
her friends and family to try and dig up whatever they can to
discredit her. Fowler goes to a lot of trouble to explain her
motivation for publishing the blog post and feels that the earlier
trials of her life gave her the courage to speak out about what was
happening in the culture.

There are a few running themes in the book. Susan Fowler wants to be
someone who makes things happen, not someone to whom things happen;
she wants to be a subject, not an object. This concept is expressed
through varying philosophies a few times. Another theme is that HR is
there to protect the company, not the employees who make
complaints. Many times HR or a manager say that an issue will be
followed up and it is simply dropped. 

She expresses concern for Uber drivers although I think she doesn't
make nearly enough distinction between Uber tech employees (many of
whom work in secret buildings so they can avoid public protests by
disgruntled Taxi drivers) and the lowly drivers. Uber are caught up in
a controversy early in the first Trump adminstration. Taxi drivers and
Lyft refuse to take airport passengers to protest Trump's "Muslim
countries ban", Uber continue to operate, leading to a "Delete Uber"
protest. This puts me in mind of "Throwing Rocks at the Google Bus"
which I will make my next non-technical IT book read.

I was initially sceptical of this book and I was footnoting it and
asking myself questions as I was going. While well written and I'm
guessing well edited I was still able to find some small solecisms:
"If you're reading this book you'll know what happens next" should
have been "Since you're reading this book..". The very first sentence
of Chapter One grates. "Even though I was born in Michigan, I have always
considered Arizona my home". Michigan plays no other part in the story
and a better editor would have told Fowler that nobody cares that she
was born in Michigan. Because of her subject/object theme she
should've started with some variation of the first line of David
Copperfield, which I understand a lot better after reading Fowler:

"Whether I shall turn out to be the hero of my own life, or whether
that station will be held by anybody else, these pages must show."

translation: Am I someone who makes things happen, or am I someone to
whom things happen? Am I a subject or an object? Read on!

This was an easy-to-read book on a difficult subject. so I'll finish
with two of the lighter moments. Fowler uses C++ as her programming
language at her interview, it's already a bit outdated so she's given
an insultingly-easy homework problem a few days later; Project Euler
Question 1. The second amusement is when Araianna Huffington is
brought to Uber to bring some star power to the board. Everyone is
working 14 hour days, and one day all employees are gifted a copy of
Huffington's important new book, "The Sleep Revolution: Transforming
your life, one night at a time". Fowler says that "it seemed like a
sick joke to many of us that Uber was promoting a book that preached
the importance of working less, taking naps, and sleeping more, while
most of its employees were working over twelve hours every day and
many drivers were working hazardously long shifts in order to receive
bonuses."

                                           25th April 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread

