YOU ONLY LIVE TWICE by Ian Fleming

(1964) 2004. Penguin Books. Paperback.

My James Bond read-em-all stalled badly after Book 11, On Her
Majesty's Secret Service. I blame Wikipedia. I'd stumbled upon (OK,
actively sought out) the Wikipedia page for this book and read all the
spoilers and spoiled the pleasure of reading the book. I then read
half the book and stalled, because there was a drunkard Aussie
character, Dikko Henderson, and I felt that Ian Fleming was being
racist towards us Aussies.

I kept the book (gorgeous silver Penguin Modern Classic) close to hand
however, and I eventually picked it up again and read it properly in
just over a week. It's a good book and has a lot of Japanese culture
in it; indeed much of the book is Bond learning Japanese culture at
the hands of Tiger Tanaka so he can go and assassinate Blofeld at his
secret Japanese Suicide Castle, Samurai style.

Blofeld isn't holding the world to ransom or running a super-genius
scheme like he is in Thunderball or On Her Majesty's Secret Service;
he's simply collecting all the poisonous plants and animals in the
world and letting Japanese people come and kill themselves on the
premises.

Bond goes native after the success of his mission and has long-term
amnesia and lives happily as a Japanese fisherman with a beautiful
Japanese naked wife, Kissy Suzuki. Kissy shields Bond from any
knowledge of his past; but the Island toilet uses newspaper not toilet
tissue to wipe your arse with and one day Bond is reminded of Russia
and its importance through reading the word "Vladivostok". The book
ends as the reader realises that Kissy will help Bond go there even
though it means losing him.

The second last chapter, M's obituary to the missing-presumed-dead
James Bond, sees Fleming poke fun at himself as M rails against the
improbable James Bond books, written by a former colleague of Bonds;
but they are of such poor quality and untruthfulness that they aren't
breaching the Official Secrets Act.

Only one full length James Bond book to go (Octopussy/Living Daylights
doesn't really count) and then the James Bond reading project will be
complete; well almost complete I'll read the huge Ian Fleming
biography which will take a while. Then I'll turn to Graham Greene for
my spy thrills.

                                                 19th June 2025

My book reviews are at https://github.com/stucooper/booksiveread
